CORE – 6PRACTICAL: JAVA PROGRAMMING LAB 
1. To find the sum of any number of integers entered as command line arguments.  
2. To find the factorial of a given number.  
3. To convert a decimal to binary number. 
4. To check if a number is prime or not, by taking the number as input from the keyboard. 
5. To find the sum of any number of integers interactively, i.e., entering every number from  the keyboard, whereas the total number of integers is given as a command line argument  
6. Write a program that show working of different functions of String and  StringBufferclasss like setCharAt( ), setLength( ), append( ), insert( ), concat( )and  equals( ).  
7. Write a program to create a – “distance” class with methods where distance is computed  in terms of feet and inches, how to create objects of a class and to see the use of this  pointer  
8. Modify the – “distance” class by creating constructor for assigning values (feetandinches)  to the distance object. Create another object and assign second object as reference  variable to another object reference variable. Further create a third object which is a clone  of the first object.  
9. Write a program to show that during function overloading, if no matching argument is  found, then Java will apply automatic type conversions (from lower to higher data type)  
10. Write a program to show the difference between public and private access specifiers. The  program should also show that primitive data types are passed by value and objects are  passed by reference and to learn use of final keyword.  
11. Write a program to show the use of static functions and to pass variable length  arguments in a function.  
14. Write a program to demonstrate the concept of boxing and unboxing. 15. Create a multi-file program where in one file a string message is taken as input from the  user and the function to display the message on the screen is given in another file (make  use of Scanner package in this program). 
16. Write a program to create a multilevel package and also creates a reusable class to  generate Fibonacci series, where the function to generate Fibonacci series is given in a  different file belonging to the same package.  
17. Write a program that creates illustrates different levels of protection in  classes/subclasses belonging to same package or different packages  
18. Write a program – “DivideByZero” that takes two numbers a and b as input, computes  a/b, and invokes Arithmetic Exception to generate a message when the denominator is 
17 
zero.  
19. Write a program to show the use of nested try statements that emphasizes the sequence of  checking for catch handler statements.  
20. Write a program to create your own exception types to handle situation specific to your  application (Hint: Define a subclass of Exception which itself is a subclass of  Throwable).  
21. Write a program to demonstrate priorities among multiple threads. 
22. Write a program to demonstrate different mouse handling events like mouseClicked( ),  mouseEntered( ), mouseExited( ), mousePressed( ), mouseReleased( ) &mouseDragged(  ).  
23. Write a program to demonstrate different keyboard handling events.  
